README.md, before:

# handlebars_misc_helpers

[![crates license](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/handlebars_misc_helpers.svg)](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)
[![crate version](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/handlebars_misc_helpers.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/handlebars_misc_helpers)
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/handlebars_misc_helpers/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/handlebars_misc_helpers/)

[![Project Status: WIP – Initial development is in progress, but there has not yet been a stable, usable release suitable for the public.](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/wip.svg)](https://www.repostatus.org/#wip)
[![Actions Status](https://github.com/davidB/handlebars_misc_helpers/workflows/ci-flow/badge.svg)](https://github.com/davidB/handlebars_misc_helpers/actions)
[![test coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/davidB/handlebars_misc_helpers/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/davidB/handlebars_misc_helpers)

A collection of helpers for handlebars (rust).

Helpers extend the template to generate or to transform content.
Few helpers are included, but if you need more helpers, ask via an issue or a PR.

To use an helper:

```handlebars
{{ helper_name argument}}
```

To chain helpers, use parenthesis:

```handlebars
{{ to_upper_case (to_singular "Hello foo-bars") }}
// -> "BAR"
```

see [Handlebars templating language](https://handlebarsjs.com/)

<!-- TOC depthFrom:2 -->

- [handlebars_misc_helpers](#handlebarsmischelpers)
  - [String transformation](#string-transformation)
  - [Http content](#http-content)
  - [Path extraction](#path-extraction)
  - [Environment variable](#environment-variable)
  - [JSON &amp; YAML &amp; TOML](#json-amp-yaml-amp-toml)
  - [Assign](#assign)

<!-- /TOC -->

## String transformation

| helper signature                         | usage sample                               | sample out         |
| ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ------------------ |
| `replace s:String from:String to:String` | `replace "Hello old" "old" "new"`          | `"Hello new"`      |
| `to_lower_case s:String`                 | `to_lower_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"hello foo-bars"` |
| `to_upper_case s:String`                 | `to_upper_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"HELLO FOO-BARS"` |
| `to_camel_case s:String`                 | `to_camel_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"helloFooBars"`   |
| `to_pascal_case s:String`                | `to_pascal_case "Hello foo-bars"`          | `"HelloFooBars"`   |
| `to_snake_case s:String`                 | `to_snake_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"hello_foo_bars"` |
| `to_screaming_snake_case s:String`       | `to_screaming_snake_case "Hello foo-bars"` | `"HELLO_FOO_BARS"` |
| `to_kebab_case s:String`                 | `to_kebab_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"hello-foo-bars"` |
| `to_train_case s:String`                 | `to_train_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"Hello-Foo-Bars"` |
| `to_sentence_case s:String`              | `to_sentence_case "Hello foo-bars"`        | `"Hello foo" bars` |
| `to_title_case s:String`                 | `to_title_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"Hello Foo Bars"` |
| `to_class_case s:String`                 | `to_class_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"HelloFooBar"`    |
| `to_table_case s:String`                 | `to_table_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"hello_foo_bars"` |
| `to_plural s:String`                     | `to_plural "Hello foo-bars"`               | `"bars"`           |
| `to_singular s:String`                   | `to_singular "Hello foo-bars"`             | `"bar"`            |
| `trim s:String`                          | `trim " foo "`                             | `"foo"`            |
| `trim_start s:String`                    | `trim_start " foo "`                       | `"foo "`           |
| `trim_end s:String`                      | `trim_end " foo "`                         | `" foo"`           |

## Http content

Helper able to render body response from an http request.

| helper signature                | usage sample                           |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| `http_get url:String`           | `http_get "http://hello/..."`          |
| `gitignore_io templates:String` | `gitignore_io "rust,visualstudiocode"` |

## Path extraction

Helper able to extract (or transform) path (defined as string).

for the same input: `"/hello/bar/foo.txt"`

| helper_name | sample output  |
| ----------- | -------------- |
| file_name   | `"foo.txt"`    |
| parent      | `"/hello/bar"` |
| extension   | `"txt"`        |

## Environment variable

Helper able to get environment variables.

| helper_name | usage            |
| ----------- | ---------------- |
| env_var     | `env_var "HOME"` |

Specials environment variables are predefined (some of them come from [std::env::consts - Rust](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/env/consts/index.html)):

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>variable</th>
            <th>possible values</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr><td><code>"ARCH"</code></td><td><ul>
            <li>x86</li>
            <li>x86_64</li>
            <li>arm</li>
            <li>aarch64</li>
            <li>mips</li>
            <li>mips64</li>
            <li>powerpc</li>
            <li>powerpc64</li>
            <li>s390x</li>
            <li>sparc64</li>
        </ul></td></tr>
        <tr><td><code>"DLL_EXTENSION"</code></td><td><ul>
            <li>so</li>
            <li>dylib</li>
            <li>dll</li>
        </ul></td></tr>
        <tr><td><code>"DLL_PREFIX"</code></td><td><ul>
            <li>lib</li>
            <li>"" (an empty string)</li>
        </ul></td></tr>
        <tr><td><code>"DLL_SUFFIX"</code></td><td><ul>
            <li>.so</li>
            <li>.dylib</li>
            <li>.dll</li>
        </ul></td></tr>
        <tr><td><code>"EXE_EXTENSION"</code></td><td><ul>
            <li>exe</li>
            <li>"" (an empty string)</li>
        </ul></td></tr>
        <tr><td><code>"EXE_SUFFIX"</code></td><td><ul>
            <li>.exe</li>
            <li>.nexe</li>
            <li>.pexe</li>
            <li>"" (an empty string)</li>
        </ul></td></tr>
        <tr><td><code>"FAMILY"</code></td><td><ul>
            <li>unix</li>
            <li>windows</li>
        </ul></td></tr>
        <tr><td><code>"OS"</code></td><td><ul>
            <li>linux</li>
            <li>macos</li>
            <li>ios</li>
            <li>freebsd</li>
            <li>dragonfly</li>
            <li>netbsd</li>
            <li>openbsd</li>
            <li>solaris</li>
            <li>android</li>
            <li>windows</li>
        </ul></td></tr>
        <tr><td><code>"USERNAME"</code></td><td>try to find the current username, in the order:<ol>
            <li>environment variable <code>"USERNAME"</code></li>
            <li>environment variable <code>"username"</code></li>
            <li>environment variable <code>"USER"</code></li>
            <li>environment variable <code>"user"</code></li>
        </ol></td></tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## JSON & YAML & TOML

helpers:

- `json_query query:String data:Json`: Helper able to extract information from json using [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/) syntax for `query`.
- `json_str_query query:String data:String`: Helper able to extract information from json using [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/) syntax for `query`, data follows the requested `format`.
- `json_to_str data:Json`: convert a json data into a string following the requested `format`.
- `str_to_json data:String`: convert(parse) a string into a json following the requested `format`.

The optional requested `format`, is the format of the string with data:

- `"json"` (default if omitted)
- `"json_pretty"` json with indentation,...
- `"yaml"`
- `"toml"`
- `"toml_pretty"`

| usage                                                                                              | output                          |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `{{ json_query "foo" {} }}`                                                                        | ``                              |
| `{{ json_to_str ( json_query "foo" {"foo":{"bar":{"baz":true}}} ) }}`                              | `{"bar":{"baz":true}}`          |
| `{{ json_to_str ( json_query "foo" (str_to_json "{\"foo\":{\"bar\":{\"baz\":true}}}" ) ) }}`       | `{"bar":{"baz":true}}`          |
| `{{ json_str_query "foo" "{\"foo\":{\"bar\":{\"baz\":true}}}" }}`                                  | `{"bar":{"baz":true}}`          |
| `{{ json_str_query "foo.bar.baz" "{\"foo\":{\"bar\":{\"baz\":true}}}" }}`                          | `true`                          |
| `{{ json_str_query "foo" "foo:\n bar:\n  baz: true\n" format="yaml"}}`                             | `bar:\n  baz: true\n`           |
| `{{ json_to_str ( str_to_json "{\"foo\":{\"bar\":{\"baz\":true}}}" format="json") format="yaml"}}` | `foo:\n  bar:\n    baz: true\n` |

Note: YAML & TOML content are used as input and output format for json data. So capabilities are limited to what json support (eg. no date-time type like in TOML).

## Assign

Helper able to assign (to set) a variable to use later in the template.

| usage                                       | output        |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| `{{ assign "foo" "{}" }}`                   | ``            |
| `{{ assign "foo" "{}" }}{{ foo }}`          | `{}`          |
| `{{ assign "foo" "hello world" }}{{ foo }}` | `hello world` |
| `{{ assign "foo" {} }}{{ foo }}`            | `[object]`    |
| `{{ assign "foo" {"bar": 33} }}{{ foo }}`   | `[object]`    |

Commit message:

:sparkles: (file) add read_to_str to read file content

README.md, after:

# handlebars_misc_helpers

[![crates license](https://img.shields.io/crates/l/handlebars_misc_helpers.svg)](http://creativecommons.org/publicdomain/zero/1.0/)
[![crate version](https://img.shields.io/crates/v/handlebars_misc_helpers.svg)](https://crates.io/crates/handlebars_misc_helpers)
[![Documentation](https://docs.rs/handlebars_misc_helpers/badge.svg)](https://docs.rs/handlebars_misc_helpers/)

[![Project Status: WIP – Initial development is in progress, but there has not yet been a stable, usable release suitable for the public.](https://www.repostatus.org/badges/latest/wip.svg)](https://www.repostatus.org/#wip)
[![Actions Status](https://github.com/davidB/handlebars_misc_helpers/workflows/ci-flow/badge.svg)](https://github.com/davidB/handlebars_misc_helpers/actions)
[![test coverage](https://codecov.io/gh/davidB/handlebars_misc_helpers/branch/master/graph/badge.svg)](https://codecov.io/gh/davidB/handlebars_misc_helpers)

A collection of helpers for handlebars (rust).

Helpers extend the template to generate or to transform content.
Few helpers are included, but if you need more helpers, ask via an issue or a PR.

To use an helper:

```handlebars
{{ helper_name argument}}
```

To chain helpers, use parenthesis:

```handlebars
{{ to_upper_case (to_singular "Hello foo-bars") }}
// -> "BAR"
```

see [Handlebars templating language](https://handlebarsjs.com/)

<!-- TOC depthFrom:2 -->

- [handlebars_misc_helpers](#handlebarsmischelpers)
  - [String transformation](#string-transformation)
  - [Http content](#http-content)
  - [Path extraction](#path-extraction)
  - [File](#file)
  - [Environment variable](#environment-variable)
  - [JSON &amp; YAML &amp; TOML](#json-amp-yaml-amp-toml)
  - [Assign](#assign)

<!-- /TOC -->

## String transformation

| helper signature                         | usage sample                               | sample out         |
| ---------------------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ | ------------------ |
| `replace s:String from:String to:String` | `replace "Hello old" "old" "new"`          | `"Hello new"`      |
| `to_lower_case s:String`                 | `to_lower_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"hello foo-bars"` |
| `to_upper_case s:String`                 | `to_upper_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"HELLO FOO-BARS"` |
| `to_camel_case s:String`                 | `to_camel_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"helloFooBars"`   |
| `to_pascal_case s:String`                | `to_pascal_case "Hello foo-bars"`          | `"HelloFooBars"`   |
| `to_snake_case s:String`                 | `to_snake_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"hello_foo_bars"` |
| `to_screaming_snake_case s:String`       | `to_screaming_snake_case "Hello foo-bars"` | `"HELLO_FOO_BARS"` |
| `to_kebab_case s:String`                 | `to_kebab_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"hello-foo-bars"` |
| `to_train_case s:String`                 | `to_train_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"Hello-Foo-Bars"` |
| `to_sentence_case s:String`              | `to_sentence_case "Hello foo-bars"`        | `"Hello foo" bars` |
| `to_title_case s:String`                 | `to_title_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"Hello Foo Bars"` |
| `to_class_case s:String`                 | `to_class_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"HelloFooBar"`    |
| `to_table_case s:String`                 | `to_table_case "Hello foo-bars"`           | `"hello_foo_bars"` |
| `to_plural s:String`                     | `to_plural "Hello foo-bars"`               | `"bars"`           |
| `to_singular s:String`                   | `to_singular "Hello foo-bars"`             | `"bar"`            |
| `trim s:String`                          | `trim " foo "`                             | `"foo"`            |
| `trim_start s:String`                    | `trim_start " foo "`                       | `"foo "`           |
| `trim_end s:String`                      | `trim_end " foo "`                         | `" foo"`           |

## Http content

Helper able to render body response from an http request.

| helper signature                | usage sample                           |
| ------------------------------- | -------------------------------------- |
| `http_get url:String`           | `http_get "http://hello/..."`          |
| `gitignore_io templates:String` | `gitignore_io "rust,visualstudiocode"` |

## Path extraction

Helper able to extract (or transform) path (defined as string).

for the same input: `"/hello/bar/foo.txt"`

| helper_name | sample output  |
| ----------- | -------------- |
| file_name   | `"foo.txt"`    |
| parent      | `"/hello/bar"` |
| extension   | `"txt"`        |

## File

Helper to read file content.

| usage                                     | output                     |
| ----------------------------------------- | -------------------------- |
| `{{ read_to_str "/foo/bar" }}`            | content of file `/foo/bar` |
| `{{ read_to_str "file/does/not/exist" }}` | empty string               |

## Environment variable

Helper able to get environment variables.

| helper_name | usage            |
| ----------- | ---------------- |
| env_var     | `env_var "HOME"` |

Specials environment variables are predefined (some of them come from [std::env::consts - Rust](https://doc.rust-lang.org/std/env/consts/index.html)):

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>variable</th>
            <th>possible values</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr><td><code>"ARCH"</code></td><td><ul>
            <li>x86</li>
            <li>x86_64</li>
            <li>arm</li>
            <li>aarch64</li>
            <li>mips</li>
            <li>mips64</li>
            <li>powerpc</li>
            <li>powerpc64</li>
            <li>s390x</li>
            <li>sparc64</li>
        </ul></td></tr>
        <tr><td><code>"DLL_EXTENSION"</code></td><td><ul>
            <li>so</li>
            <li>dylib</li>
            <li>dll</li>
        </ul></td></tr>
        <tr><td><code>"DLL_PREFIX"</code></td><td><ul>
            <li>lib</li>
            <li>"" (an empty string)</li>
        </ul></td></tr>
        <tr><td><code>"DLL_SUFFIX"</code></td><td><ul>
            <li>.so</li>
            <li>.dylib</li>
            <li>.dll</li>
        </ul></td></tr>
        <tr><td><code>"EXE_EXTENSION"</code></td><td><ul>
            <li>exe</li>
            <li>"" (an empty string)</li>
        </ul></td></tr>
        <tr><td><code>"EXE_SUFFIX"</code></td><td><ul>
            <li>.exe</li>
            <li>.nexe</li>
            <li>.pexe</li>
            <li>"" (an empty string)</li>
        </ul></td></tr>
        <tr><td><code>"FAMILY"</code></td><td><ul>
            <li>unix</li>
            <li>windows</li>
        </ul></td></tr>
        <tr><td><code>"OS"</code></td><td><ul>
            <li>linux</li>
            <li>macos</li>
            <li>ios</li>
            <li>freebsd</li>
            <li>dragonfly</li>
            <li>netbsd</li>
            <li>openbsd</li>
            <li>solaris</li>
            <li>android</li>
            <li>windows</li>
        </ul></td></tr>
        <tr><td><code>"USERNAME"</code></td><td>try to find the current username, in the order:<ol>
            <li>environment variable <code>"USERNAME"</code></li>
            <li>environment variable <code>"username"</code></li>
            <li>environment variable <code>"USER"</code></li>
            <li>environment variable <code>"user"</code></li>
        </ol></td></tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

## JSON & YAML & TOML

helpers:

- `json_query query:String data:Json`: Helper able to extract information from json using [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/) syntax for `query`.
- `json_str_query query:String data:String`: Helper able to extract information from json using [JMESPath](http://jmespath.org/) syntax for `query`, data follows the requested `format`.
- `json_to_str data:Json`: convert a json data into a string following the requested `format`.
- `str_to_json data:String`: convert(parse) a string into a json following the requested `format`.

The optional requested `format`, is the format of the string with data:

- `"json"` (default if omitted)
- `"json_pretty"` json with indentation,...
- `"yaml"`
- `"toml"`
- `"toml_pretty"`

| usage                                                                                              | output                          |
| -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------- |
| `{{ json_query "foo" {} }}`                                                                        | ``                              |
| `{{ json_to_str ( json_query "foo" {"foo":{"bar":{"baz":true}}} ) }}`                              | `{"bar":{"baz":true}}`          |
| `{{ json_to_str ( json_query "foo" (str_to_json "{\"foo\":{\"bar\":{\"baz\":true}}}" ) ) }}`       | `{"bar":{"baz":true}}`          |
| `{{ json_str_query "foo" "{\"foo\":{\"bar\":{\"baz\":true}}}" }}`                                  | `{"bar":{"baz":true}}`          |
| `{{ json_str_query "foo.bar.baz" "{\"foo\":{\"bar\":{\"baz\":true}}}" }}`                          | `true`                          |
| `{{ json_str_query "foo" "foo:\n bar:\n  baz: true\n" format="yaml"}}`                             | `bar:\n  baz: true\n`           |
| `{{ json_to_str ( str_to_json "{\"foo\":{\"bar\":{\"baz\":true}}}" format="json") format="yaml"}}` | `foo:\n  bar:\n    baz: true\n` |

Note: YAML & TOML content are used as input and output format for json data. So capabilities are limited to what json support (eg. no date-time type like in TOML).

## Assign

Helper able to assign (to set) a variable to use later in the template.

| usage                                       | output        |
| ------------------------------------------- | ------------- |
| `{{ assign "foo" "{}" }}`                   | ``            |
| `{{ assign "foo" "{}" }}{{ foo }}`          | `{}`          |
| `{{ assign "foo" "hello world" }}{{ foo }}` | `hello world` |
| `{{ assign "foo" {} }}{{ foo }}`            | `[object]`    |
| `{{ assign "foo" {"bar": 33} }}{{ foo }}`   | `[object]`    |
